Docs - Add web vitals autocapture (#9318)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/docs/product-analytics/web-vitals.mdx

---
title: Web vitals autocapture
sidebar: Docs
showTitle: true
availability:
  free: full
  selfServe: full
  enterprise: full
---

import { ProductScreenshot } from 'components/ProductScreenshot'
import { ProductVideo } from 'components/ProductVideo'

> PostHog can automatically capture [core web vitals](https://web.dev/explore/learn-core-web-vitals) like LCP, FID, CLS, and FCP. This you means you don't need to manually add logging from [Google's web vitals library](https://github.com/GoogleChrome/web-vitals).

Reviewer: - We should spell out the acronyms the first time we use them
- Linking out to Google's library might only confuse people, don't think it is necessary. 
```suggestion
PostHog can automatically capture [core web vitals](https://web.dev/explore/learn-core-web-vitals) like largest contentful paint, first input delay, cumulative layout shift, and first contentful paint. This you means you don't need to manually add web vitals logging.
```

## How to enable web vitals autocapture

> Go to your [Autocapture & heapmaps settings](https://us.posthog.com/project/settings/project-autocapture#web-vitals-autocapture). Then, in the **Web vitals autocapture** section, click **Enable**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Go to your [Autocapture & heatmaps settings](https://us.posthog.com/settings/project-autocapture#web-vitals-autocapture). Then, in the **Web vitals autocapture** section, click **Enable**.
```

> Note that web vitals autocapture is separate from our regular [autocapture](/docs/product-analytics/autocapture) feature. Web vitals can be captured regardless of whether autocapture is enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** Web vitals autocapture is separate from our regular [autocapture](/docs/product-analytics/autocapture) feature. Web vitals can be captured regardless of whether autocapture is enabled.
```

<ProductScreenshot
  imageLight="https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/v1725632828/posthog.com/contents/Screenshot_2024-09-06_at_3.26.12_PM.png"
  imageDark="https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/v1725632829/posthog.com/contents/Screenshot_2024-09-06_at_3.26.18_PM.png"
  alt="How to enable web vitals autocapture" 
  classes="rounded"
/>

> Once enabled, web vitals will be captured under the `Web vitals` event name.

Reviewer 2: pricing is a little confusing since you'll get 0 to 4 events per page view

I wonder if we should call out cost or not

maybe the "we capture multiple metrics per event when we can to help reduce cost" is the angle

Reviewer: yes, we should mention this.

Author: This is clearer now that you can choose which metric to log. Will need to update the screenshot though

> Once enabled, web vitals will be captured under the `Web vitals` event name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once enabled, web vitals are captured under the `$web_vitals` event name. These events include properties for each of the metrics like `$web_vitals_FCP_value` and `$web_vitals_FCP_event`.
```

## Dashboard template

> Once you've enabled the integration, we've created a dashboard templatehelp you quickly set up relevant insights. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you've enabled the integration, we've created a dashboard template to help you quickly set up relevant insights. 
```

To create your own dashboard from a template:

1. Go the [dashboard tab](https://us.posthog.com/dashboard) in PostHog.
2. Click the **New dashboard** button in the top right.
3. Select **Web vitals** from the list of templates.

> <ProductVideo

Reviewer: lol at the anchorman gif
